<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>IX</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-9" epub:type="chapter">
			
        <div class='center' style='margin-top:4em;margin-bottom:2em;font-size:1.2em;'>
          <table border="0" cellpadding="4" cellspacing="0" summary="triple" width="100%">
          <tr>
            <td align='left'><a id='ch9'></a><span class='it'>Chapter IX</span></td>
            <td align='center'></td>
            <td align='right'><span class='it'>Before the Lights Went Out</span></td>
          </tr>
          </table>
        </div>
      

<p>THE band had stopped, a rustle of hand-clapping
came from the hot dancers, and almost before the
applause had started the second band struck up “Kulloo.”</p>

<p>Mirabelle was not especially happy. Her partner was
the most correct of dancers, but they lacked just that
unity of purpose, that oneness of interest which makes
all the difference between the ill-&nbsp;and the well-matched.</p>

<p>“May we sit down?” she begged. “I am rather hot.”</p>

<p>“Will the gracious lady come to the little hall?”
he asked. “It is cooler there, and the chairs are comfortable.”</p>

<p>She looked at him oddly.</p>

<p>“ ‘Gracious lady’ is a German expression—why do
you use it, Lord Evington? I think it is very pretty,”
she hastened to assure him.</p>

<p>“I lived for many years in Germany,” said Mr. Gurther.
“I do not like the German people—they are so stupid.”</p>

<p>If he had said “German police” he would have been
nearer to the truth; and had he added that the dislike
was mutual, he might have gained credit for his frankness.</p>

<p>At the end of the room, concealed by the floral decorations
of the bandstand, was a door which led to a smaller
room, ordinarily separated from the main hall by folding
doors which were seldom opened. To-night the annexe
was to be used as a conservatory. Palms and banked
flowers were everywhere. Arbours had been artificially
created, and there were cosy nooks, half-hidden by shrubs,
secluded seats and tables, all that ingenuity could design
to meet the wishes of sitters-out.</p>

<p>He stood invitingly at the entrance of a little grotto,
dimly illuminated by one Chinese lantern.</p>

<p>“I think we will sit in the open,” said Mirabelle, and
pulled out a chair.</p>

<p>“Excuse me.”</p>

<p>Instantly he was by her side, the chair arranged, a
cushion found, and she sank down with a sigh of relief.
It was early yet for the loungers: looking round, she saw
that, but for a solitary waiter fastening his apron with one
eye upon possible customers, they were alone.</p>

<p>“You will drinke wine .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. no? An orangeade?
Good!” He beckoned the waiter and gave his order.
“You must excuse me if I am a little strange. I have
been in Germany for many years—except during the war,
when I was in France.”</p>

<p>Mr. Gurther had certainly been in Germany for many
years, but he had never been in France. Nor had he
heard a shot fired in the war. It is true that an aerial
bomb had exploded perilously near the prison at Mainz in
which he was serving ten years for murder, but that
represented his sole warlike experience.</p>

<p>“You live in the country, of course?”</p>

<p>“In London: I am working with Mr. Oberzohn.”</p>

<p>“So: he is a good fellow. A gentleman.”</p>

<p>She had not been very greatly impressed by the
doctor’s breeding, but it was satisfying to hear a stranger
speak with such heartiness of her new employer. Her
mind at the moment was on Heavytree Farm: the cool
parlour with its chintzes—a room, at this hour, fragrant
with the night scents of flowers which came stealing
through the open casement. There was a fox-terrier,
Jim by name, who would be wandering disconsolately
from room to room, sniffing unhappily at the hall door.
A lump came up into her throat. She felt very far from
home and very lonely. She wanted to get up and run
back to where she had left Joan and tell her that she had
changed her mind and must go back to Gloucester that
night .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. she looked impatiently for the waiter. Mr.
Gurther was fiddling with some straws he had taken
from the glass container in the centre of the table. One
end of the straws showed above the edge of the table, the
others were thrust deep in the wide-necked little bottle
he had in the other hand. The hollow straws held half
an inch of the red powder that filled the bottle.</p>

<p>“Excuse!”</p>

<p>The waiter put the orangeades on the table and went
away to get change. Mirabelle’s eyes were wistfully
fixed on a little door at the end of the room. It gave
to the street, and there were taxicabs which could get
her to Paddington in ten minutes.</p>

<p>When she looked round he was stirring the amber
contents of her glass with a spoon. Two straws were
invitingly protruding from the foaming orangeade. She
smiled and lifted the glass as he fitted a cigarette into
his long black holder.</p>

<p>“I may smoke—yes?”</p>

<p>The first taste she had through the straws was one
of extreme bitterness. She made a wry face and put down
the glass.</p>

<p>“How horrid!”</p>

<p>“Did it taste badly .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. ?” he began, but she was
pouring out water from a bottle.</p>

<p>“It was most unpleasant——”</p>

<p>“Will you try mine, please?” He offered the glass
to her and she drank. “It may have been something
in the straw.” Here he was telling her the fact.</p>

<p>“It was .&nbsp;.&nbsp;.”</p>

<p>The room was going round and round, the floor rising
up and down like the deck of a ship in a stormy sea. She
rose, swayed, and caught him by the arm.</p>

<p>“Open the little door, waiter, please—the lady is
faint.”</p>

<p>The waiter turned to the door and threw it open.
A man stood there—just outside the door. He wore over
his dinner dress a long cloak in the Spanish style. Gurther
stood staring, a picture of amused dismay, his cigarette
still unlit. He did not move his hands. Gonsalez was
waiting there, alert .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. death grinning at him .&nbsp;.&nbsp;.
and then the room went inky black. Somebody had
turned the main switch.</p>

		</section>
	</body>
</html>
