<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XX: Gurther Reports</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-20" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XX</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Gurther Reports</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Dr. Oberzhon had not been to bed for thirty-five years. It was his practice to sleep in a chair, and alternate his dozes with copious draughts from his favourite authors. Mostly the books were about the soul, and free will, and predestination, with an occasional dip into Nietzsche by way of light recreation. In ordinary circumstances he would have had need for all the philosophy he could master; for ruin had come. The destruction of his store, which, to all intents and purposes, was uninsured, would have been the crowning stroke of fate but for the golden vision ahead.</p>
			<p>Villa, that handsome half-breed, had arrived in England and had been with the doctor all the evening. At that moment he was on his way to Liverpool to catch the Coast boat, and he had left with his master a record of the claims that had already been pegged out on Monte Doro, as he so picturesquely renamed the new mountain. There were millions there; uncountable wealth. And between the Herr Doktor and the achievement of this colossal fortune was a life which he had no immediate desire to take. The doctor was a bachelor; women bored him. Yet he was prepared to take the extreme step if by so doing he could doubly ensure his fortune. Mirabelle dead gave him one chance; Mirabelle alive and persuaded, multiplied that chance by a hundred.</p>
			<p>He opened the book he was reading at the last page and took out the folded paper. It was a special licence to marry, and had been duly registered at the Greenwich Registrar’s Office since the day before the girl had entered his employment. This was his second and most powerful weapon. He could have been legally married on this nearly a week ago. It was effective for two months at least, and only five days separated him from the necessity of a decision. If the time expired, Mirabelle could live. It was quite a different matter, killing in cold blood a woman for whom the police would be searching, and with whose disappearance his name would be connected, from that other form of slaying he favoured: the striking down of strange men in crowded thoroughfares. She was not for the snake⁠—as yet.</p>
			<p>He folded the paper carefully, put it back in the book and turned the page, when there was a gentle tap at the door and he sat up.</p>
			<p>“Come in, Pfeiffer. March!”</p>
			<p>The door opened slowly and a man sidled into the room, and at the sight of him Dr. Oberzohn gasped.</p>
			<p>“Gurther!” he stammered, for once thrown out of his stride.</p>
			<p>Gurther smiled and nodded, his round eyes fixed on the tassel of the Herr Doktor’s smoking-cap.</p>
			<p>“You have returned⁠—and failed?”</p>
			<p>“The American, I think, is dead, Herr Doktor,” said the man in his staccato tone. “The so excellent Pfeiffer is also⁠—dead!”</p>
			<p>The doctor blinked twice.</p>
			<p>“Dead?” he said gratingly. “Who told you this?”</p>
			<p>“I saw him. Something happened⁠ ⁠… to the snake. Pfeiffer was bitten.”</p>
			<p>The old man’s hard eyes fixed him.</p>
			<p>“So!” he said softly.</p>
			<p>“He died very quickly⁠—in the usual manner,” jerked Gurther, still with that stupid smile.</p>
			<p>“So!” said the doctor again. “All then was failure, and out of it comes an American, who is nothing, and Pfeiffer, who is much⁠—dead!”</p>
			<p>“God have him in his keeping!” said Gurther, not lowering or raising his eyes. “And all the way back I thought this, Herr Doktor⁠—how much better that it should be Pfeiffer and not me. Though my nerves are so bad.”</p>
			<p>“So!” said the doctor for the fourth time, and held out his hand.</p>
			<p>Gurther slipped his fingers into his waistcoat pocket and took out a gold cigarette-case. The doctor opened it and looked at the five cigarettes that reposed, at the two halves of the long holder neatly lying in their proper place, closed the case with a snap and laid it on the table.</p>
			<p>“What shall I do with you, Gurther? To-morrow the police will come and search this house.”</p>
			<p>“There is the cellar, Herr Doktor: it is very comfortable there. I would prefer it.”</p>
			<p>Dr. Oberzohn made a gesture like a boy wiping something from a slate.</p>
			<p>“That is not possible: it is in occupation,” he said. “I must find a new place for you.” He stared and mused. “There is the boat,” he said.</p>
			<p>Gurther’s smile did not fade.</p>
			<p>The boat was a small barge, which had been drawn up into the private dock of the <abbr epub:type="z3998:surname">O.</abbr> &amp; <abbr epub:type="z3998:surname">S.</abbr> factory, and had been rotting there for years, the playing-ground of rats, the doss-house of the homeless. The doctor saw what was in the man’s mind.</p>
			<p>“It may be comfortable. I will give you some gas to kill the rats, and it will only be for five-six days.”</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="de">Ja</i>, Herr Doktor.”</p>
			<p>“For to-night you may sleep in the kitchen. One does not expect⁠—”</p>
			<p>There was a thunderous knock on the outer door. The two men looked at one another, but still Gurther grinned.</p>
			<p>“I think it is the police,” said the doctor calmly.</p>
			<p>He got up to his feet, lifted the seat of a long hard-looking sofa, disclosing a deep cavity, and Gurther slipped in, and the seat was replaced. This done, the doctor waddled to the door and turned the key.</p>
			<p>“Good morning, Inspector Meadows.”</p>
			<p>“May I come in?” said Meadows.</p>
			<p>Behind him were two police officers, one in uniform.</p>
			<p>“Do you wish to see me? Certainly.” He held the door cautiously open and only Meadows came in, and preceded the doctor into his study.</p>
			<p>“I want Mirabelle Leicester,” said Meadows curtly. “She was abducted from her home in the early hours of this morning, and I have information that the car which took her away came to this house. There are tracks of wheels in the mud outside.”</p>
			<p>“If there are car tracks, they are mine,” said the doctor calmly. He enumerated the makes of machines he possessed. “There is another matter: as to cars having come here in the night, I have a sense of hearing, Mr. Inspector Meadows, and I have heard many cars in Hangman’s Lane⁠—but not in my ground. Also, I’m sure you have not come to tell me of abducted girls, but to disclose to me the miscreant who burnt my store. That is what I expected of you.”</p>
			<p>“What you expect of me and what you get will be entirely different propositions,” said Meadows unpleasantly. “Now come across, Oberzohn! We know why you want this girl⁠—the whole plot has been blown. You think you’ll prevent her from making a claim on the Portuguese Government for the renewal of a concession granted in June, 1912, to her father.”</p>
			<p>If Dr. Oberzohn was shocked to learn that his secret was out, he did not show it by his face. Not a muscle moved.</p>
			<p>“Of such matters I know nothing. It is a fantasy, a story of fairies. Yet it must be true, Mr. Inspector Meadows, if you say it. No: I think you are deceived by the criminals of Curzon Street, <abbr class="eoc">W.</abbr> Men of blood and murder, with records that are infamous. You desire to search my house? It is your privilege.” He waved his hand. “I do not ask you for the ticket of search. From basement to attic the house is yours.”</p>
			<p>He was not surprised when Meadows took him at his word, and, going out into the hall, summoned his assistants. They visited each room separately, the old cook and the half-witted Danish girl accepting this visitation as a normal occurrence: they had every excuse to do so, for this was the second time in a fortnight that the house had been visited by the police.</p>
			<p>“Now I’ll take a look at your room, if you don’t mind,” said Meadows.</p>
			<p>His quick eyes caught sight of the box ottoman against the wall, and the fact that the doctor was sitting thereon added to his suspicions.</p>
			<p>“I will look in here, if you please,” he said.</p>
			<p>Oberzohn rose and the detective lifted the lid. It was empty. The ottoman had been placed against the wall, at the bottom of which was a deep recess. Gurther had long since rolled through the false back.</p>
			<p>“You see⁠—nothing,” said Oberzohn. “Now perhaps you would like to search my factory? Perhaps amongst the rafters and the burnt girders I may conceal a something. Or the barge in my slipway? Who knows what I may place amongst the rats?”</p>
			<p>“You’re almost clever,” said Meadows, “and I don’t profess to be a match for you. But there are three men in this town who are! I’ll be frank with you, Oberzohn. I want to put you where I can give you a fair trial, in accordance with the law of this country, and I shall resist, to the best of my ability, any man taking the law into his own hands. But whether you’re innocent or guilty, I wouldn’t stand in your shoes for all the money in Angola!”</p>
			<p>“So?” said the doctor politely.</p>
			<p>“Give up this girl, and I rather fancy that half your danger will be at an end. I tell you, you’re too clever for me. It’s a stupid thing for a police officer to say, but I can’t get at the bottom of your snake. They have.”</p>
			<p>The old man’s brows worked up and down.</p>
			<p>“Indeed?” he said blandly. “And of which snake do you speak?”</p>
			<p>Meadows said nothing more. He had given his warning: if Oberzohn did not profit thereby, he would be the loser.</p>
			<p>Nobody doubted, least of all he, that, in defiance of all laws that man had made, independent of all the machinery of justice that human ingenuity had devised, inevitable punishment awaited Oberzohn and was near at hand.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
