<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>V</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-5" epub:type="chapter">
			
        <div class='center' style='margin-top:4em;margin-bottom:2em;font-size:1.2em;'>
          <table border="0" cellpadding="4" cellspacing="0" summary="triple" width="100%">
          <tr>
            <td align='left'><a id='ch5'></a><span class='it'>Chapter V</span></td>
            <td align='center'></td>
            <td align='right'><span class='it'>The Golden Woman</span></td>
          </tr>
          </table>
        </div>
      

<p>BARBERTON had been stricken down in the heart
of London, under the very eyes of the policeman,
it proved.</p>

<p>“Yes, sir, I’ve had him under observation for a quarter
of an hour. I saw him walking along the Embankment,
admiring the view, long before he stopped here.”</p>

<p>“Did anybody go near him or speak to him?” asked
Dr. Elver, looking up.</p>

<p>“No, sir, he stood by himself. I’ll swear that nobody
was within two yards of him. Of course, people have
been passing to and fro, but I have been looking at him
all the time, and I’ve not seen man or woman within
yards of him, and my eyes were never off him.”</p>

<p>A second policeman had appeared on the scene, and
he was sent across to Scotland Yard in Manfred’s car,
for the ambulance and the police reserves necessary to
clear and keep in circulation the gathering crowd. These
returned simultaneously, and the two friends watched
the pitiable thing lifted into a stretcher, and waited until
the white-bodied vehicle had disappeared with its sad
load before they returned to their machine.</p>

<p>Gonsalez took his place at the wheel; George got in
by his side. No word was spoken until they were back
at Curzon Street. Manfred went in alone, whilst his
companion drove the machine to the garage. When
he returned, he found Poiccart and George deep in discussion.</p>

<p>“You were right, Raymond.” Leon Gonsalez stripped
his thin coat and threw it on a chair. “The accuracy
of your forecasts is almost depressing. I am waiting
all the time for the inevitable mistake, and I am irritated
when this doesn’t occur. You said the snake would
reappear, and the snake has reappeared. Prophesy
now for me, O seer!”</p>

<p>Poiccart’s heavy face was gloomy; his dark eyes
almost hidden under the frown that brought his bushy
eyebrows lower.</p>

<p>“One hasn’t to be a seer to know that our association
with Barberton will send the snake wriggling towards
Curzon Street,” he said. “Was it Gurther or Pfeiffer?”</p>

<p>Manfred considered.</p>

<p>“Pfeiffer, I think. He is the steadier of the two.
Gurther has brain-storms; he is on the neurotic side.
And that nine-thonged whip of yours, Leon, cannot
have added to his mental stability. No, it was Pfeiffer,
I’m sure.”</p>

<p>“I suppose the whip unbalanced him a little,” said
Leon. He thought over this aspect as though it were
one worth consideration. “Gurther is a sort of Jekyll
and Hyde, except that there is no virtue to him at all.
It is difficult to believe, seeing him dropping languidly
into his seat at the opera, that this exquisite young man
in his private moments would not change his linen more
often than once a month, and would shudder at the sound
of a running bath-tap! That almost sounds as though
he were a morphia fiend. I remember a case in ’99
.&nbsp;.&nbsp;. but I am interrupting you?”</p>

<p>“What precautions shall you take, Leon?” asked
George Manfred.</p>

<p>“Against the snake?” Leon shrugged his shoulders.
“The old military precaution against Zeppelin raids; the
precaution the farmer takes against a plague of wasps.
You cannot kneel on the chest of the <span class='it'>vespa vulgaris</span> and
extract his sting with an anæsthetic. You destroy his
nest—you bomb his hangar. Personally, I have never
feared dissolution in any form, but I have a childish
objection to being bitten by a snake.”</p>

<p>Poiccart’s saturnine face creased for a moment in a
smile.</p>

<p>“You’ve no objection to stealing my theories,” he
said dryly, and the other doubled up in silent laughter.</p>

<p>Manfred was pacing the little room, his hands behind
him, a thick Egyptian cigarette between his lips.</p>

<p>“There’s a train leaves Paddington for Gloucester at
ten forty-five,” he said. “Will you telegraph to Miss
Goddard, Heavytree Farm, and ask her to meet the
train with a cab? After that I shall want two men to
patrol the vicinity of the farm day and night.”</p>

<p>Poiccart pulled open a drawer of the desk, took out a
small book and ran his finger down the index.</p>

<p>“I can get this service in Gloucester,” he said. “Gordon,
Williams, Thompson and Elfred—they’re reliable
people and have worked for us before.”</p>

<p>Manfred nodded.</p>

<p>“Send them the usual instructions by letter. I
wonder who will be in charge of this Barberton case.
If it’s Meadows, I can work with him. On the other hand,
if it’s Arbuthnot, we shall have to get our information by
subterranean methods.”</p>

<p>“Call Elver,” suggested Leon, and George pulled
the telephone towards him.</p>

<p>It was some time before he could get into touch
with Dr. Elver, and then he learnt, to his relief,
that the redoubtable Inspector Meadows had complete
charge.</p>

<p>“He’s coming up to see you,” said Elver. “As a
matter of fact, the chief was here when I arrived at the
Yard, and he particularly asked Meadows to consult with
you. There’s going to be an awful kick at the Home
Secretary’s office about this murder. We had practically
assured the Home Office that there would be no repetition
of the mysterious deaths and that the snake had gone
dead for good.”</p>

<p>Manfred asked a few questions and then hung up.</p>

<p>“They are worried about the public—you never know
what masses will do in given circumstances. But you
can gamble that the English mass does the same thing—Governments
hate intelligent crowds. This may cost the
Home Secretary his job, poor soul! And he’s doing his
best.”</p>

<p>A strident shout in the street made him turn his head
with a smile.</p>

<p>“The late editions have got it—naturally. It might
have been committed on their doorstep.”</p>

<p>“But why?” asked Poiccart. “What was Barberton’s
offence?”</p>

<p>“His first offence,” said Leon promptly, without
waiting for Manfred to reply, “was to go in search of
Miss Mirabelle Leicester. His second and greatest was
to consult with us. He was a dead man when he left the
house.”</p>

<p>The faint sound of a bell ringing sent Poiccart down to
the hall to admit an unobtrusive, middle-aged man, who
might have been anything but what he was: one of the
cleverest trackers of criminals that Scotland Yard had
known in thirty years. A sandy-haired, thin-faced man,
who wore pince-nez and looked like an actor, he had been a
visitor to Curzon Street before, and now received a warm
welcome. With little preliminary he came to the object
of his call, and Manfred told him briefly what had happened,
and the gist of his conversation with Barberton.</p>

<p>“Miss Mirabelle Leicester is——” began Manfred.</p>

<p>“Employed by Oberzohn—I know,” was the surprising
reply. “She came up to London this morning
and took a job as laboratory assistant. I had no idea
that Oberzohn &amp; Smitts had a laboratory on the premises.”</p>

<p>“They hadn’t until a couple of days ago,” interrupted
Leon. “The laboratory was staged especially for her.”</p>

<p>Meadows nodded, then turned to Manfred.</p>

<p>“He didn’t give you any idea at all why he wanted
to meet Miss Leicester?”</p>

<p>George shook his head.</p>

<p>“No, he was very mysterious indeed on that subject,”
he said.</p>

<p>“He arrived by the <span class='it'>Benguella</span>, eh?” said Meadows,
making a note. “We ought to get something from the
ship before they pay off their stewards. If a man isn’t
communicative on board ship, he’ll never talk at all!
And we may find something in his belongings. Would
you like to come along, Manfred?”</p>

<p>“I’ll come with pleasure,” said George gravely. “I
may help you a little—you will not object to my making
my own interpretation of what we see?”</p>

<p>Meadows smiled.</p>

<p>“You will be allowed your private mystery,” he said.</p>

<p>A taxi set them down at the Petworth Hotel in Norfolk
Street, and they were immediately shown up to the
room which the dead man had hired but had not as yet
occupied. His trunk, still strapped and locked, stood on
a small wooden trestle, his overcoat was hanging behind
the door; in one corner of the room was a thick hold-all,
tightly strapped, and containing, as they subsequently
discovered, a weather-stained mackintosh, two well-worn
blankets and an air pillow, together with a collapsible
canvas chair, also showing considerable signs of usage.
This was the object of their preliminary search.</p>

<p>The lock of the trunk yielded to the third key which
the detective tried. Beyond changes of linen and two
suits, one of which was practically new and bore the
tab of a store in St. Paul de Loanda, there was very little
to enlighten them. They found an envelope full of papers,
and sorted them out one by one on the bed. Barberton
was evidently a careful man: he had preserved his
hotel bills, writing on their backs brief but pungent
comments about the accommodation he had enjoyed
or suffered. There was an hotel in Lobuo which was
full of vermin; there was one at Mossamedes of which
he had written: “Rats ate one boot. Landlord made
no allowance. Took three towels and pillow-slip.”</p>

<p>“One of the Four Just Men in embryo,” said Meadows
dryly.</p>

<p>Manfred smiled.</p>

<p>On the back of one bill were closely written columns
of figures: “12/6, 13/15, 10/7, 17/12, about 24,” etc.
Against a number of these figures the word “about”
appeared, and Manfred observed that invariably this
qualification marked one of the higher numbers. Against
the 10/7 was a thick pencil mark.</p>

<p>There were amongst the papers several other receipts.
In St. Paul he had bought a “pistol automatic of precision”
and ammunition for the same. The “pistol
automatic of precision” was not in the trunk.</p>

<p>“We found it in his pocket,” said Meadows briefly.
“That fellow was expecting trouble, and was entitled to,
if it is true that they tortured him at Mosamodes.”</p>

<p>“Moss-<span class='it'>am</span>-o-dees,” Manfred corrected the mispronunciation.
It almost amounted to a fad in him that to
hear a place miscalled gave him a little pain.</p>

<p>Meadows was reading a letter, turning the pages
slowly.</p>

<p>“This is from his sister: she lives at Brightlingsea,
and there’s nothing in it except .&nbsp;.&nbsp;.” He read a portion
of the letter aloud:</p>

<div class='blockquoter9'>

<p>“.&nbsp;.&nbsp;. thank you for the books. The children will appreciate
them. It must have been like old times writing them—but I can
understand how it helped pass the time. Mr. Lee came over and
asked if I had heard from you. He is wonderful.”</p>

</div>

<p>The letter was in an educated hand.</p>

<p>“He didn’t strike me as a man who wrote books,”
said Meadows, and continued his search.</p>

<p>Presently he unfolded a dilapidated map, evidently
of Angola. It was rather on the small scale, so much so
that it took in a portion of the Kalahari Desert in the
south, and showed in the north the undulations of the
rolling Congo.</p>

<p>“No marks of any kind,” said Meadows, carrying the
chart to the window to examine it more carefully. “And
that, I think, is about all—unless this is something.”</p>

<p>“This” was wrapped in a piece of cloth, and was
fastened to the bottom and the sides of the trunk by
two improvised canvas straps. Meadows tried to pull
it loose and whistled.</p>

<p>“Gold,” he said. “Nothing else can weigh quite
as heavily as this.”</p>

<p>He lifted out the bundle eventually, unwrapped the
covering, and gazed in amazement on the object that
lay under his eyes. It was an African <span class='it'>bête</span>, a nude, squat
idol, rudely shaped, the figure of a native woman.</p>

<p>“Gold?” said Manfred incredulously, and tried to
lift it with his finger and thumb. He took a firmer grip
and examined the discovery closely.</p>

<p>There was no doubt that it was gold, and fine gold.
His thumb-nail made a deep scratch in the base of the
statuette. He could see the marks where the knife of
the inartistic sculptor had sliced and carved.</p>

<p>Meadows knew the coast fairly well: he had made
many trips to Africa and had stopped off at various ports
en route.</p>

<p>“I’ve never seen anything exactly like it before,” he
said, “and it isn’t recent workmanship either. When
you see this”—he pointed to a physical peculiarity of
the figure—“you can bet that you’ve got something that’s
been made at least a couple of hundred years, and probably
before then. The natives of West and Central
Africa have not worn toe-rings, for example, since the
days of the Cæsars.”</p>

<p>He weighed the idol in his hand.</p>

<p>“Roughly ten pounds,” he said. “In other words,
eight hundred pounds’ worth of gold.”</p>

<p>He was examining the cloth in which the idol had
been wrapped, and uttered an exclamation.</p>

<p>“Look at this,” he said.</p>

<p>Written on one corner, in indelible pencil, were the
words:</p>

<p>“Second shelf up left Gods lobby sixth.”</p>

<p>Suddenly Manfred remembered.</p>

<p>“Would you have this figure put on the scales right
away?” he said. “I’m curious to know the exact
weight.”</p>

<p>“Why?” asked Meadows in surprise, as he rang the
bell.</p>

<p>The proprietor himself, who was aware that a police
search was in progress, answered the call, and, at the
detective’s request, hurried down to the kitchen and
returned in a few minutes with a pair of scales, which he
placed on the table. He was obviously curious to know
the purpose for which they were intended, but Inspector
Meadows did not enlighten him, standing pointedly by
the door until the gentleman had gone.</p>

<p>The figure was taken from under the cloth where it had
been hidden whilst the scales were being placed, and
put in one shallow pan on the machine.</p>

<p>“Ten pounds seven ounces,” nodded Manfred triumphantly.
“I thought that was the one!”</p>

<p>“One what?” asked the puzzled Meadows.</p>

<p>“Look at this list.”</p>

<p>Manfred found the hotel bill with the rows of figures
and pointed to the one which had a black cross against
it.</p>

<p>“10/7,” he said. “That is our little fellow, and the
explanation is fairly plain. Barberton found some
treasure-house filled with these statues. He took away
the lightest. Look at the figures! He weighed them
with a spring balance, one of those which register up to
21 lbs. Above that he had to guess—he puts ‘about
24,’ ‘about 22.’ ”</p>

<p>Meadows looked at his companion blankly, but Manfred
was not deceived. That clever brain of the detective
was working.</p>

<p>“Not for robbery—the trunk is untouched. They
did not even burn his feet to find the idol or the treasure-house:
they must have known nothing of that. It
was easy to rob him—or, if they knew of his gold idol,
they considered it too small loot to bother with.”</p>

<p>He looked slowly round the apartment. On the
mantelshelf was a slip of brown paper like a pipe-spill.</p>

<p>He picked it up, looked at both sides, and, finding the
paper blank, put it back where he had found it. Manfred
took it down and absently drew the strip between his
sensitive finger-tips.</p>

<p>“The thing to do,” said Meadows, taking one final
look round, “is to find Miss Leicester.”</p>

<p>Manfred nodded.</p>

<p>“That is one of the things,” he said slowly. “The
other, of course, is to find Johnny.”</p>

<p>“Johnny?” Meadows frowned suspiciously. “Who
is Johnny?” he asked.</p>

<p>“Johnny is my private mystery.” George Manfred
was smiling. “You promised me that I might have
one!”</p>

		</section>
	</body>
</html>
