<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXX</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-30" epub:type="chapter">
			
        <div class='center' style='margin-top:4em;margin-bottom:2em;font-size:1.2em;'>
          <table border="0" cellpadding="4" cellspacing="0" summary="triple" width="100%">
          <tr>
            <td align='left'><a id='ch30'></a><span class='it'>Chapter XXX</span></td>
            <td align='center'></td>
            <td align='right'><span class='it'>Joan a Prisoner</span></td>
          </tr>
          </table>
        </div>
      

<p>DAZED with grief, not knowing, not seeing, not
caring, not daring to think, Joan suffered herself
to be led quickly into the obscurity of the side-street,
and did not even realize that Oberzohn’s big limousine
had drawn up by the sidewalk.</p>

<p>“Get in,” said the woman harshly.</p>

<p>Joan was pushed through the door and guided to a
seat by somebody who was already in the machine.</p>

<p>She collapsed in a corner moaning as the door slammed
and the car began to move.</p>

<p>“Where are we going? Let me get back to him!”</p>

<p>“The gracious lady will please restrain her grief,”
said a hateful voice, and she swung round and stared
unseeingly to the place whence the voice had come.</p>

<p>The curtains of the car had been drawn; the interior
was as black as pitch.</p>

<p>“You—you beast!” she gasped. “It’s you, is it?
.&nbsp;.&nbsp;. Gurther! You murdering beast!”</p>

<p>She struck at him feebly, but he caught her wrist.</p>

<p>“The gracious lady will most kindly restrain her
grief,” he said suavely. “The Herr Newton is not dead.
It was a little trick in order to baffle certain interferers.”</p>

<p>“You’re lying, you’re lying!” she screamed, struggling
to escape from those hands of steel. “He’s dead!
You know he’s dead, and you killed him! You snake-man!”</p>

<p>“The gracious lady must believe me,” said Gurther
earnestly. They were passing through a public part of
the town and at any moment a policeman might hear her
shrieks. “If Herr Newton had not pretended to be hurt,
he would have been arrested .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. he follows in the next
car.”</p>

<p>“You’re trying to quieten me,” she said, “but I won’t
be quiet.”</p>

<p>And then a hand came over her mouth and pressed
her head back against the cushions. She struggled desperately,
but two fingers slid up her face and compressed
her nostrils. She was being suffocated. She struggled to
free herself from the tentacle hold of him, and then
slipped into unconsciousness. Gurther felt the straining
figure go limp and removed his hands. She did not feel
the prick of the needle on her wrist, though the drugging
was clumsily performed in the darkness and in a car that
was swaying from side to side. He felt her pulse, his
long fingers pressed her throat and felt the throb of the
carotid artery; propping her so that she could not fall,
Herr Gurther sank back luxuriously into a corner of the
limousine and lit a cigar.</p>

<p>The journey was soon over. In a very short time
they were bumping down Hangman’s Lane and turned
so abruptly into the factory grounds that one of the mudguards
buckled to the impact of the gate-post.</p>

<hr class='tbk104'/>

<p>It must have been two hours after the departure of
her companion, when Mirabelle, lying on her bed, half
dozing, was wakened by her book slipping to the floor, and
sat up quickly to meet the apprising stare of the man
whom, of all men in the world, she disliked most cordially.
Dr. Oberzohn had come noiselessly into the room and
under his arm was a pile of books.</p>

<p>“I have brought these for you,” he said, in his booming
voice, and stacked them neatly on the table.</p>

<p>She did not answer.</p>

<p>“Novels of a frivolous kind, such as you will enjoy,”
he said, unconscious of offence. “I desired the seller
of the books to pick them for me. Fiction stories of
adventure and of amorous exchanges. These will occupy
your mind, though to me they would be the merest rubbish
and nonsense.”</p>

<p>She stood silently, her hands clasped behind her,
watching him. He was neater than usual, had resumed
the frock-coat he wore the day she had first met him—how
long ago that seemed!—his collar was stiffly white,
and if his cravat was more gorgeous than is usually seen
in a man correctly arrayed, it had the complementary
value of being new.</p>

<p>He held in his hand a small bouquet of flowers tightly
packed, their stems enclosed in silver foil, a white paper
frill supplying an additional expression of gentility.</p>

<p>“These are for you.” He jerked out his hand towards
her.</p>

<p>Mirabelle looked at the flowers, but did not take them.
He seemed in no way disconcerted, either by her silence,
or by the antagonism which her attitude implied, but,
laying the flowers on top of the books, he clasped his
hands before him and addressed her. He was nervous,
for some reason; the skin of his forehead was furrowing
and smoothing with grotesque rapidity. She watched
the contortions, fascinated.</p>

<p>“To every man,” he began, “there comes a moment
of domestic allurement. Even to the scientific mind,
absorbed in its colossal problems, there is this desire for
family life and for the haven of rest which is called
marriage.”</p>

<p>He paused, as though he expected her to offer some
comment upon his platitude.</p>

<p>“Man alone,” he went on, when she did not speak,
“has established an artificial and unnatural convention
that, at a certain age, a man should marry a woman of
that same age. Yet it has been proved by history that
happy marriages are often between a man who is in the
eyes of the world old, and a lady who is youthful.”</p>

<p>She was gazing at him in dismay. Was he proposing
to her? The idea was incredible, almost revolting. He
must have read in her face the thoughts that were uppermost
in her mind, the loathing, the sense of repulsion
which filled her, yet he went on, unabashed:</p>

<p>“I am a man of great riches. You are a girl of considerable
poverty. But because I saw you one day in
your poor house, looking, gracious lady, like a lily growing
amidst foul weeds, my heart went out to you, and for
this reason I brought you to London, spending many
thousands of pounds in order to give myself the pleasure
of your company.”</p>

<p>“I don’t think you need go any farther, Dr. Oberzohn,”
she said quietly, “if you’re proposing marriage,
as I think you are.”</p>

<p>He nodded emphatically.</p>

<p>“Such is my honourable intention,” he said.</p>

<p>“I would never marry you in any circumstances,”
she said. “Not even if I had met you under the happiest
conditions. The question of your age”—she nearly
added “and of your appearance,” but her natural kindness
prevented that cruel thrust, though it would not
have hurt him in the slightest degree—“has nothing
whatever to do with my decision. I do not even like
you, and have never liked you, Mr. Oberzohn.”</p>

<p>“Doctor,” he corrected, and in spite of her woeful
plight she could have laughed at this insistence upon the
ceremonial title.</p>

<p>“Young miss, I cannot woo you in the way of my
dear and sainted brother, who was all for ladies and had
a beautiful manner.”</p>

<p>She was amazed to hear that he had a brother at
all—and it was almost a relief to know that he was
dead.</p>

<p>“Martyred, at the hands of wicked and cunning
murderers, slain in his prime by the assassin’s pistol .&nbsp;.&nbsp;.”
His voice trembled and broke. “For that sainted life I
will some day take vengeance.”</p>

<p>It was not wholly curiosity that impelled her to ask
who killed him.</p>

<p>“Leon Gonsalez.” The words in his lips became the
grating of a file. “Killed .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. murdered! And even
his beautiful picture destroyed in that terrible fire. Had
he saved that, my heart would have been soft towards
him.” He checked himself, evidently realizing that he
was getting away from the object of his call. “Think
over this matter, young lady. Read the romantic books
and the amorous books, and then perhaps you will not
think it is so terrible a fate to drift at moonlight through
the canals of Venice, with the moon above and the
gondoliers.”</p>

<p>He wagged his head sentimentally.</p>

<p>“There is no book which will change my view, doctor,”
she said. “I cannot understand why you propose such
an extraordinary course, but I would rather die than
marry you.”</p>

<p>His cold eyes filled her with a quick terror.</p>

<p>“There are worse things than death, which is but
sleep—many worse things, young miss. To-morrow I shall
come for you, and we will go into the country, where you
will say ‘yes’ and ‘no’ according to my desire. I have
many—what is the word?—certificates for marriage, for
I am too clever a man to leave myself without alternatives.”</p>

<p>(This was true; he had residential qualifications in
at least four counties, and at each he had given legal
notice of his intended marriage.)</p>

<p>“Not to-morrow or any other day. Nothing would
induce me.”</p>

<p>His eyebrows went almost to the top of his head.</p>

<p>“So!” he said, with such significance that her blood
ran cold. “There are worse men than the Herr Doktor,”—he
raised a long finger warningly,—“terrible men with
terrible minds. You have met Gurther?”</p>

<p>She did not answer this.</p>

<p>“Yes, yes, you danced with him. A nice man, is he
not, to ladies? Yet this same Gurther .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. I will tell
you something.”</p>

<p>He seated himself on a corner of the table and began
talking, until she covered her ears with her hands and
hid her white face from him.</p>

<p>“They would have killed him for that,” he said,
when her hands came down, “but Gurther was too clever,
and the poor German peasants too stupid. You shall
remember that, shall you not?”</p>

<p>He did not wait for her answer. With a stiff bow
he strutted out of the room and up the stairs. There
came the thud of the trap falling and the inevitable
rumble of the concrete barrel.</p>

<p>He had some work to do, heavy work for a man who
found himself panting when he climbed stairs. And
though four of his best and most desperate men were
waiting in his parlour drinking his whisky and filling the
little room with their rank cigar smoke, he preferred to
tackle this task which he had already begun as soon as
night fell, without their assistance or knowledge.</p>

<p>On the edge of the deep hole in his grounds, where
the wild convolvulus grew amidst the rusty corners of
discarded tins and oil barrels, was a patch of earth that
yielded easily to the spade. When the factory had been
built, the depression had been bigger, but the builders
had filled in half the hole with the light soil that they
had dug out of the factory’s foundations.</p>

<p>He took his spade, which he had left in the factory,
and, skirting the saucer-shaped depression, he reached
a spot where a long trench had already been dug. Taking
off his fine coat and waistcoat, unfastening cravat and
collar and carefully depositing them upon the folded
coat, he continued his work, stopping now and again to
wipe his streaming brow.</p>

<p>He had to labour in the dark, but this was no disadvantage;
he could feel the edges of the pit. In an
hour the top of the trench was level with his chin, and,
stooping to clear the bottom of loose soil, he climbed up
with greater difficulty than he had anticipated, and it
was only after the third attempt that he managed to
reach the top, out of breath and short of temper.</p>

<p>He dressed again, and with his electric torch surveyed
the pit he had made and grunted his satisfaction.</p>

<p>He was keenly sensitive to certain atmospheres, and
needed no information about the change which had come
over his subordinates. In their last consultation Gurther
had been less obsequious, had even smoked in his presence
without permission—absent-mindedly, perhaps, but the
offence was there. And Dr. Oberzohn, on the point of
smacking his face for his insolence, heard a warning voice
within himself which had made his hand drop back at
his side. Or was it the look he saw on Gurther’s face?
The man was beyond the point where he could discipline
him in the old Junker way. For although Dr. Oberzohn
contemned all things Teutonic, he had a sneaking reverence
for the military caste of that nation.</p>

<p>He left the spade sticking in a heap of turned earth.
He would need that again, and shortly. Unless Gurther
failed. Somehow he did not anticipate a failure in this
instance. Mr. Monty Newton had not yet grown suspicious,
would not be on his guard. His easy acceptance
of the theatre ticket showed his mind in this respect.</p>

<p>The four men in his room rose respectfully as he came
in. The air was blue with smoke, and Lew Cuccini
offered a rough apology. He had been released that
morning from detention, for Meadows had found it difficult
to frame a charge which did not expose the full activities
of the police, and the part they were playing in relation
to Mirabelle Leicester. Evidently Cuccini had been
reproaching, in his own peculiar way and in his own unprincipled
language, the cowardice of his three companions,
for the atmosphere seemed tense when the doctor returned.
Yet, as was subsequently proved, the appearance of
discord was deceptive; might indeed have been staged
for their host’s benefit.</p>

<p>“I’ve just been telling these birds——” began Cuccini.</p>

<p>“Oh, shut up, Lew!” growled one of his friends.
“If that crazy man hadn’t been shouting your name, we
should not have gone back! He’d have wakened the
dead. And our orders were to retire at the first serious
sign of an alarm. That’s right, doctor, isn’t it?”</p>

<p>“Sure it’s right,” said the doctor blandly. “Never
be caught—that is a good motto. Cuccini was caught.”</p>

<p>“And I’d give a year of my life to meet that Dago
again,” said Cuccini, between his teeth.</p>

<p>He was delightfully inconsistent, for he came into
the category, having been born in Milan, and had had
his early education in the Italian quarter of Hartford,
Connecticut.</p>

<p>“He’d have tortured me too .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. he was going to put
lighted wax matches between my fingers——”</p>

<p>“And then you spilled it!” accused one of the three
hotly. “You talk about us bolting!”</p>

<p>“Silence!” roared the doctor. “This is unseemly!
I have forgiven everything. That shall be enough for
you all. I will hear no other word.”</p>

<p>“Where is Gurther?” Cuccini asked the question.</p>

<p>“He has gone away. To-night he leaves for America.
He may return—who knows? But that is the intention.”</p>

<p>“Snaking?” asked somebody, and there was a little
titter of laughter.</p>

<p>“Say, doctor, how do you work that stunt?” Cuccini
leaned forward, his cigar between his fingers, greatly
intrigued. “I saw no snakes down at Rath Hall, and
yet he was bitten, just as that Yankee was bitten—Washington.”</p>

<p>“He will die,” said the doctor complacently. He
was absurdly jealous for the efficacy of his method.</p>

<p>“He was alive yesterday, anyway. We shadowed
him to the station.”</p>

<p>“Then he was not bitten—no, that is impossible.
When the snake-bites,”—Oberzohn raised his palms and
gazed piously at the ceiling—“after that there is nothing.
No, no, my friend, you are mistaken.”</p>

<p>“I tell you I’m not making any mistake,” said the
other doggedly. “I was in the room, I tell you, soon
after they brought him in, and I heard one of the busies
say that his face was all wet.”</p>

<p>“So!” said Oberzohn dully. “That is very bad.”</p>

<p>“But how do you do it, doctor? Do you shoot or
sump’n’?”</p>

<p>“Let us talk about eventual wealth and happiness,”
said the doctor. “To-night is a night of great joy for
me. I will sing you a song.”</p>

<p>Then, to the amazement of the men and to their great
unhappiness, he sang, in a thin, reedy old voice, the
story of a young peasant who had been thwarted in
love and had thrown himself from a cliff into a seething
waterfall. It was a lengthy song, intensely sentimental,
and his voice held few of the qualities of music. The gang
had never been set a more difficult job than to keep
straight faces until he had finished.</p>

<p>“Gee! You’re some artist, doctor!” said the sycophantic
Cuccini, and managed to get a simulation of
envy into his voice.</p>

<p>“In my student days I was a great singer,” said the
doctor modestly.</p>

<p>Over the mantelpiece was a big, old clock, with a
face so faded that only a portion of the letters remained.
Its noisy ticking had usually a sedative effect on the
doctor. But its main purpose and value was its accuracy.
Every day it was corrected by a message from Greenwich,
and as Oberzohn’s success as an organizer depended upon
exact timing, it was one of his most valuable assets.</p>

<p>He glanced up at the clock now, and that gave Cuccini
his excuse.</p>

<p>“We’ll be getting along, doctor,” he said. “You
don’t want anything to-night? I’d like to get a cut at
that Gonsalez man. You won’t leave me out if there’s
anything doing?”</p>

<p>Oberzohn rose and went out of the room without another
word, for he knew that the rising of Cuccini was a
signal that not only was the business of the day finished,
but also that the gang needed its pay.</p>

<p>Every gang-leader attended upon Mr. Oberzohn once
a week with his pay-roll, and it was usually the custom
for the Herr Doktor to bring his cash-box into the room
and extract sufficient to liquidate his indebtedness to
the leader. It was a big box, and on pay-day, as this
was, filled to the top with bank-notes and Treasury bills.
He brought it back now, put it on the table, consulted the
little slip that Cuccini offered to him, and, taking out a
pad of notes, fastened about by a rubber band, he wetted
his finger and thumb.</p>

<p>“You needn’t count them,” said Cuccini. “We’ll
take the lot.”</p>

<p>The doctor turned to see that Cuccini was carelessly
holding a gun in his hand.</p>

<p>“The fact is, doctor,” said Cuccini coolly, “we’ve
seen the red light, and if we don’t skip now, while the
skipping’s good, there’s going to be no place we can
stay comfortable in this little island, and I guess we’ll
follow Gurther.”</p>

<p>One glance the doctor gave at the pistol and then
he resumed his counting, as though nothing had happened.</p>

<p>“Twenty, thirty, forty, fifty .&nbsp;.&nbsp;.”</p>

<p>“Now quit that,” said Cuccini roughly. “I tell you,
you needn’t count.”</p>

<p>“My friend, I prefer to know what I am going to lose.
It is a pardonable piece of curiosity.”</p>

<p>He raised his hand to the wall, where a length of
cord hung, and pulled at it gently, without taking his
eyes from the bank-notes.</p>

<p>“What are you doing? Put up your hands!” hissed
Cuccini.</p>

<p>“Shoot, I beg.” Oberzohn threw a pad of notes on
the table. “There is your pay.” He slammed down the
lid of the box. “Now you shall go, if you <span class='it'>can</span> go! Do
you hear them?” He raised his hand, and to the
strained ears of the men came a gentle rustling sound
from the passage outside as though somebody were
dragging a piece of parchment along the floor. “Do you
hear? You shall go if you can,” said the doctor again,
with amazing calmness.</p>

<p>“The snakes!” breathed Cuccini, going white, and
the hand that held the pistol shook.</p>

<p>“Shoot them, my friend,” sneered Oberzohn. “If
you see them, shoot them. But you will not see them,
my brave man. They will be—where? No eyes shall
see them come or go. They may lie behind a picture,
they may wait until the door is opened, and then .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. !”</p>

<p>Cuccini’s mouth was dry.</p>

<p>“Call ’em off, doctor,” he said tremulously.</p>

<p>“Your gun—on the table.”</p>

<p>Still the rustling sound was audible. Cuccini hesitated
for a second, then obeyed, and took up the notes.</p>

<p>The other three men were huddled together by the
fire-place, the picture of fear.</p>

<p>“Don’t open the door, doc,” said Cuccini, but Oberzohn
had already gripped the handle and turned it.</p>

<p>They heard another door open and the click of the
passage light as it had come on. Then he returned.</p>

<p>“If you go now, I shall not wish to see you again.
Am I not a man to whom all secrets are known? You
are well aware!”</p>

<p>Cuccini looked from the doctor to the door.</p>

<p>“Want us to go?” he asked, troubled.</p>

<p>Oberzohn shrugged.</p>

<p>“As you wish! It was my desire that you should
stay with me to-night—there is big work and big money
for all of you.”</p>

<p>The men were looking at one another uneasily.</p>

<p>“How long do you want us to stay?” asked Cuccini.</p>

<p>“To-night only; if you would not prefer .&nbsp;.&nbsp;.”</p>

<p>To-night would come the crisis. Oberzohn had realized
this since the day dawned for him.</p>

<p>“We’ll stay—where do we sleep?”</p>

<p>For answer Oberzohn beckoned them from the room
and they followed him into the laboratory. In the wall
that faced them was a heavy iron door that opened into
a concrete storehouse, where he kept various odds and
ends of equipment, oil and spirit for his cars, and the little
gas engine that worked a small dynamo in the laboratory
and gave him, if necessary, a lighting plant independent
of outside current.</p>

<p>There were three long windows heavily barred and
placed just under the ceiling.</p>

<p>“Looks like the condemned cell to me,” grumbled
Cuccini suspiciously.</p>

<p>“Are the bolts on the inside of a condemned cell?”
asked Oberzohn. “Does the good warden give you the
key as I give you?”</p>

<p>Cuccini took the key.</p>

<p>“All right,” he said ungraciously, “there are plenty
of blankets here, boys—I guess you want us where the
police won’t look, eh?”</p>

<p>“That is my intention,” replied the doctor.</p>

<p>Dr. Oberzohn closed the door on them and re-entered
his study, his big mouth twitching with amusement. He
pulled the cord again and closed the ventilator he had
opened. It was only a few days before that he had
discovered that there were dried leaves in the ventilator
shaft, and that the opening of the inlet made them rustle,
disturbingly for a man who was engaged in a profound
study of the lesser known, and therefore the more highly
cultured, philosophers.</p>

		</section>
	</body>
</html>
