<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXII: In the Store Cellar</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-22" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">In the Store Cellar</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>It was impossible that Mirabelle Leicester could fail to realize the serious danger in which she stood. Why she had incurred the enmity of Oberzohn, for what purpose this man was anxious to keep her under his eye, she could not even guess. It was a relief to wake up in the early morning, as she did, and find Joan sleeping in the same room; for though she had many reasons for mistrusting her, there was something about this doll-faced girl that made an appeal to her.</p>
			<p>Joan was lying on the bed fully dressed, and at the sound of the creaking bed she turned and got up, fastening her skirt.</p>
			<p>“Well, how do you like your new home?” she asked, with an attempt at joviality, which she was far from feeling, in spite of Monty’s assurances.</p>
			<p>“I’ve seen better,” said Mirabelle coolly.</p>
			<p>“I’ll bet you have!” Joan stretched and yawned; then, opening one of the cupboards, took a shovelful of coal and threw it into the furnace, clanging the iron door. “That’s my job,” she said humorously, “to keep you warm.”</p>
			<p>“How long am I going to be kept here?”</p>
			<p>“Five days,” was the surprising answer.</p>
			<p>“Why five?” asked Mirabelle curiously.</p>
			<p>“I don’t know. Maybe they’ll tell you,” said Joan.</p>
			<p>She fixed a plug in the wall and turned on the small electric fire. Disappearing, she came back with a kettle which she placed on top of the ring.</p>
			<p>“The view’s not grand, but the food’s good,” she said, with a gaiety that Mirabelle was now sure was forced.</p>
			<p>“You’re with these people, of course—Dr. Oberzohn and Newton?”</p>
			<p>“Mister Newton,” corrected Joan. “Yes, I’m his fiancée. We’re going to be married when things get a little better,” she said vaguely, “and there’s no use in your getting sore with me because I helped to bring you here. Monty’s told me all about it. They’re going to do you no harm at all.”</p>
			<p>“Then why——” began Mirabelle.</p>
			<p>“He’ll tell you,” interrupted Joan, “sooner or later. The old man, or—or—well, Monty isn’t in this: he’s only obliging Oberzohn.”</p>
			<p>With one thing Mirabelle agreed: it was a waste of time to indulge in recriminations or to reproach the girl for her supreme treachery. After all, Joan owed nothing to her, and had been from the first a tool employed for her detention. It would have been as logical for a convict to reproach the prison guard.</p>
			<p>“How do you come to be doing this sort of thing?” she asked, watching the girl making tea.</p>
			<p>“Where do you get ‘this sort of thing’ from?” demanded Joan. “If you suppose that I spend my life chaperoning females, you’ve got another guess coming. Scared, aren’t you?”</p>
			<p>She looked across at Mirabelle and the girl shook her head.</p>
			<p>“Not really.”</p>
			<p>“I should be,” confessed Joan. “Do you mind condensed milk? There’s no other. Yes, I should be writhing under the table, knowing something about Oberzohn.”</p>
			<p>“If I were Oberzohn,” said Mirabelle with spirit, “I should be hiding in a deep hole where the Four Just Men would not find me.”</p>
			<p>“Four Just Men!” sneered the girl, and then her face changed. “Were they the people who whipped Gurther?”</p>
			<p>Mirabelle had not heard of this exploit, but she gave them credit with a nod.</p>
			<p>“Is that so? Does Gurther know they’re friends of yours?” she asked significantly.</p>
			<p>“I don’t know Gurther.”</p>
			<p>“He’s the man who danced with you the other night—Lord—I forget what name we gave him. Because, if he does know, my dear,” she said slowly, “you’ve got two people to be extremely careful with. Gurther’s half mad. Monty has always said so. He dopes too, and there are times when he’s not a man at all but a low-down wolf. I’m scared of <span class="it">him</span>—I’ll admit it. There aren’t Four Just Men, anyway,” she went off at a tangent. “There haven’t been more than three for years. One of them was killed in Bordeaux. That’s a town I’d hate to be killed in,” said Joan irreverently.</p>
			<p>An interval of silence followed whilst she opened an air-tight tin and took out a small cake, and, putting it on the table, cut it into slices.</p>
			<p>“What are they like?” she asked.</p>
			<p>Evidently the interval had been filled with thoughts of the men from Curzon Street.</p>
			<p>“Monty says they’re just bluff, but I’m not so sure that Monty tells me all he thinks. He’s so scared that he told me to call and see them, just because they gave him an order—which isn’t like Monty. They’ve killed people, haven’t they?”</p>
			<p>Mirabelle nodded.</p>
			<p>“And got away with it? They must be clever.” Joan’s admiration was dragged from her. “Where do they get their money?”</p>
			<p>That was always an interesting matter to Joan.</p>
			<p>When the girl explained, she was really impressed. That they could kill and get away with it, was wonderful; that they were men of millions, placed them in a category apart.</p>
			<p>“They’ll never find you here,” said Joan. “There’s nobody living knows about this vault. There used to be eight men working here, sorting monkey hides, and every one of them’s dead. Monty told me. He said this place is below the canal level, and Oberzohn can flood it in five minutes. Monty thinks the old man had an idea of running a slush factory here.”</p>
			<p>“What is a slush factory?” asked Mirabelle, open-mouthed.</p>
			<p>“Phoney—snide—counterfeit. Not English, but Continental work. He was going to do that if things had gone really bad, but of course you make all the difference.”</p>
			<p>Mirabelle put down her cup.</p>
			<p>“Does he expect to make money out of me?” she said, trying hard not to laugh.</p>
			<p>The girl nodded solemnly.</p>
			<p>“Does he think I have a great deal of money?”</p>
			<p>“He’s sure.”</p>
			<p>Joan was sure too. Her tone said that plainly enough.</p>
			<p>Mirabelle sat down on the bed, for the moment too astonished to speak. Her own financial position was no mystery. She had been left sufficient to bring her in a small sum yearly, and with the produce of the farm had managed to make both ends meet. It was the failure of the farm as a source of profit which had brought her to her new job in London. Alma had also a small annuity; the farm was the girl’s property, but beyond these revenues she had nothing. There was not even a possibility that she was an heiress. Her father had been a comparatively poor man, and had been supported in his numerous excursions to various parts of the world in search of knowledge by the scientific societies to which he was attached; his literary earnings were negligible; his books enjoyed only a very limited sale. She could trace her ancestry back for seven generations; knew of her uncles and aunts, and they did not include a single man or woman who, in the best traditions of the story-books, had gone to America and made an immense fortune.</p>
			<p>“It is absurd,” she said. “I have no money. If Mr. Oberzohn puts me up to ransom, it will have to be something under a hundred!”</p>
			<p>“Put you up to ransom?” said Joan. “I don’t get you there. But you’re rich all right—I can tell you that. Monty says so, and Monty wouldn’t lie to me.”</p>
			<p>Mirabelle was bewildered. It seemed almost impossible that a man of Oberzohn’s intelligence and sources of information could make such a mistake. And yet Joan was earnest.</p>
			<p>“They must have mistaken me for somebody else,” she said, but Joan did not answer. She was sitting up in a listening attitude, and her eyes were directed towards the iron door which separated their sleeping apartment from the larger vault. She had heard the creak of the trap turning and the sound of feet coming down the stairs.</p>
			<p>Mirabelle rose as Oberzohn came in. He wore his black dressing-gown, his smoking-cap was at the back of his head, and the muddy Wellington boots which he had pulled over his feet looked incongruous, and would at any other time have provoked her to laughter.</p>
			<p>He favoured her with a stiff nod.</p>
			<p>“You have slept well, gracious lady?” he said, and to her amazement took her cold hand in his and kissed it.</p>
			<p>She felt the same feeling of revulsion and unreality as had overcome her that night at the dance when Gurther had similarly saluted her.</p>
			<p>“It is a nice place, for young people and for old.” He looked round the apartment with satisfaction. “Here I should be content to spend my life reading my books, and giving my mind to thought, but”—he spread his hands and shrugged—“what would you? I am a business man, with immense interests in every part of the world. I am rich, too, beyond your dreams! I have stores in every part of the world, and thousands of men and women on my pay-roll.”</p>
			<p>Why was he telling her all this, she wondered, reciting the facts in a monotonous voice. Surely he had not come down to emphasize the soundness of his financial position?</p>
			<p>“I am not very much interested in your business, Mr. Oberzohn,” she said, “but I want to know why I am being detained here. Surely, if you’re so rich, you do not want to hold me to ransom?”</p>
			<p>“To ransom?” His forehead went up and down. “That is foolish talk. Did she tell you?” He pointed at the girl, and his face went as black as thunder.</p>
			<p>“No, I guessed,” said Mirabelle quickly, not wishing to get her companion into bad odour.</p>
			<p>“I do not hold you to ransom. I hold you, lovely lady, because you are good for my eyes. Did not Heine say, ‘The beauty of women is a sedative to the soul’? You should read Heine: he is frivolous, but in his stupidity there are many clever thoughts. Now tell me, lovely lady, have you all you desire?”</p>
			<p>“I want to go out,” she said. “I can’t stay in this underground room without danger to my health.”</p>
			<p>“Soon you shall go.” He bowed stiffly again, and shuffled across the floor to the furnace. Behind this were the two baize-covered boxes, and one he lifted tenderly. “Here are secrets such as you should not pry into,” he said in his awkward English. “The most potent of chemicals, colossal in power. The ignorant would touch them and they would explode—you understand?”</p>
			<p>He addressed Mirabelle, who did not understand but made no answer.</p>
			<p>“They must be kept warm for that reason. One I take, the other I leave. You shall not touch it—that is understood? My good friend has told you?” He brought his eyes to Joan.</p>
			<p>“I understand all right,” she said. “Listen, Oberzohn: when am I going out for a walk? This place is getting on my nerves already.”</p>
			<p>“To-night you shall have exercise with the lovely lady. I myself will accompany you.”</p>
			<p>“Why am I here, Mr. Oberzohn?” Mirabelle asked again.</p>
			<p>“You are here because you are in danger,” said Oberzohn, holding the green box under his arm. “You are in very great danger.” He nodded with every word. “There are certain men, of all the most infamous, who have a design upon your life. They are criminal, cunning and wise—but not so cunning or wise as Dr. Oberzohn. Because I will not let you fall into their hands I keep you here, young miss. Good morning.”</p>
			<p>Again he bowed stiffly and went out, the iron door clanging behind him. They heard him climbing the stairs, the thud of the trap as it fell, and the rumble which Joan, at any rate, knew was made by the cement barrel being rolled to the top of the trap.</p>
			<p>“Pleasant little fellow, isn’t he?” said Joan bitterly. “Him and his chemicals!” She glared down at the remaining box. “If I were sure it wouldn’t explode, I should smash it to smithereens!” she said.</p>
			<p>Later she told the prisoner of Oberzohn’s obsession; of how he spent time and money in his search for the vital elixir.</p>
			<p>“Monty thinks he’ll find it,” she said seriously. “Do you know, that old man has had an ox stewed down to a pint? There used to be a king in Europe—I forget his name—who had the same stuff, but not so strong. Monty says that Oberzohn hardly ever takes a meal—just a teaspoonful of this dope and he’s right for the day. And Monty says . . .”</p>
			<p>For the rest of that dreary morning the girl listened without hearing to the wise sayings and clever acts of Monty; and every now and again her eyes strayed to the baize-covered box which contained “the most potent chemicals,” and she wondered whether, in the direst extremity, she would be justified in employing these dread forces for her soul’s salvation.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
