<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXVII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-27" epub:type="chapter">
			
        <div class='center' style='margin-top:4em;margin-bottom:2em;font-size:1.2em;'>
          <table border="0" cellpadding="4" cellspacing="0" summary="triple" width="100%">
          <tr>
            <td align='left'><a id='ch27'></a><span class='it'>Chapter XXVII</span></td>
            <td align='center'></td>
            <td align='right'><span class='it'>Mr. Newton’s Dilemma</span></td>
          </tr>
          </table>
        </div>
      

<p>THE most carefully guided streaks of luck may, in
spite of all precautions, overflow into the wrong
channel, and this had happened to Mr. Montague Newton,
producing an evening that was financially disastrous and
a night from which sleep was almost banished. He had
had one of his little card parties; but whether it was the
absence of Joan, and the inadequacy of her fluffy-haired
substitute, or whether the wine had disagreed with one
of the most promising victims, the result was the same.
They had played <span class='it'>chemin de fer</span>, and the gilded pigeon,
whose feathers seemed already to be ornamenting the
head-dress of Monty Newton, had been successful, and
when he should have been signing cheques for large
amounts, he was cashing his counters with a reluctant
host.</p>

<p>The night started wrong with Joan’s substitute, whose
name was Lisa. She had guided to the establishment,
via an excellent dinner at Mero’s, the son of an African
millionaire. Joan, of course, would have brought him
alone, but Lisa, less experienced, had allowed a young-looking
friend of the victim to attach himself to the party,
and she had even expected praise for her perspicacity and
enterprise in producing two birds for the stone which
Mr. Newton so effectively wielded, instead of one.</p>

<p>Monty did not resent the presence of the new-comer,
and rather took the girl’s view, until he learnt that
Lisa’s “find” was not, as she had believed, an officer of the
Guards, but a sporting young lawyer with a large criminal
practice, and one who had already, as a junior, conducted
several prosecutions for the Crown. The moment his
name was mentioned, Monty groaned in spirit. He was,
moreover, painfully sober. His friend was not so favourably
situated.</p>

<p>That was the first of the awkward things to happen.
The second was the bad temper of the player, who, when
the bank was considerably over £3,000, had first of all
insisted upon the cards being reshuffled, and then had
gone banquo—the game being baccarat. Even this
contretemps might have been overcome, but after he had
expressed his willingness to “give it,” the card which
Monty had so industriously palmed, slipped from his
hand to the table, and though the fact was unnoticed
by the players, the lawyer’s attention being diverted at
the moment, it was impossible to recover that very
valuable piece of pasteboard. And Monty had done a
silly thing. Instead of staging an artistic exhibition of
annoyance at remarks which the millionaire’s son had
made, he decided to take a chance on the natural run of
the cards. And he had lost. On top of that, the slightly
inebriated player had decided that when a man had won
a coup of £3,000 it was time to stop playing. So Monty
experienced the mortification of paying out money, and
accompanying his visitor to the door with a smile that
was so genial and so full of good-fellowship that the
young gentleman was compelled to apologize for his
boorishness.</p>

<p>“Come along some other night and give me my revenge,”
said Monty.</p>

<p>“You bet I will! I’m going to South Africa to-morrow,
but I shall be back early next year, and I’ll
look you up.”</p>

<p>Monty watched him going down the steps and hoped
he would break his neck.</p>

<p>He was worried about Joan—more worried than he
thought it was possible for him to be about so light a girl.
She was necessary to him in many ways. Lisa was a
bungling fool, he decided, though he sent her home without
hurting her feelings. She was a useful girl in many
ways, and nothing spoils a tout quicker than constant
nagging.</p>

<p>He felt very lonely in the house, and wandered from
room to room, irritated with himself that the absence
of this feather-brained girl, who had neither the education
nor the breed of his own class, should make such
a big difference. And it did; he had to admit as much
to himself. He hated the thought of that underground
room. He knew something of her temperament, and
how soon her experience would get on her nerves. In
many respects he wished he did not feel that way about
her, because she had a big shock coming, and it was
probably because he foresaw this hurt, that he was
anxious to make the present as happy as he could for
her.</p>

<p>After he had done what he was to do, there was no
reason in the world why they should be bad friends, and
he would give her a big present. Girls of that class
soon forget their miseries if the present is large enough.
Thus he argued, tossing from side to side in his bed, and
all the time his thoughts playing about that infernal
cellar. What she must be feeling! He did not worry
at all about Mirabelle, because—well, she was a principal
in the case. To him, Joan was the real victim.</p>

<p>Sleep did not come until daybreak, and he woke in
his most irritable frame of mind. He had promised the
girl he would call and see her, though he had privately
arranged with Oberzohn not to go to the house until the
expiry of the five days.</p>

<p>By lunch-time he could stand the worry no longer,
and, ordering his car, drove to a point between New Cross
and Bermondsey, walking on foot the remainder of the
distance. Mr. Oberzohn expected the visit. He had a
shrewd knowledge of his confederate’s mental outfit,
and when he saw this well-dressed man picking a dainty
way across the littered ground, he strolled out on the
steps to meet him.</p>

<p>“It is curious you should have come,” he said.</p>

<p>“Why didn’t you telephone?” growled Newton.
This was his excuse for the visit.</p>

<p>“Because there are human machines at the end of
every wire,” said Oberzohn. “If they were automatic
and none could listen, but you and I, we would talk and
talk and then talk! All day long would I speak with
you and find it a pleasure. But not with Miss This
and Miss That saying, ‘One moment, if you please,’
and saying to the Scotland Yard man, ‘Now you cut
in’!”</p>

<p>“Is Gurther back?”</p>

<p>“Gurther is back,” said the doctor soberly.</p>

<p>“Nothing happened to that bird? At least, I saw
nothing in the evening papers.”</p>

<p>“He has gone to Lisbon,” replied the doctor indifferently.
“Perhaps he will get there, perhaps he will not—what
does it matter? I should like to see the letter,
because it is data, and data has an irresistible charm for
a poor old scientist. You will have a drink?”</p>

<p>Monty hesitated, as he always did when Oberzohn
offered him refreshment. You could never be sure with
Oberzohn.</p>

<p>“I’ll have a whisky,” he said at last, “a full bottle—one
that hasn’t been opened. I’ll open it myself.”</p>

<p>The doctor chuckled unevenly.</p>

<p>“You do not trust?” he said. “I think you are
wise. For who is there in this world of whom a man
can say, ‘He is my friend. To the very end of my life
I will have confidence in him’?”</p>

<p>Monty did not feel that the question called for an
answer.</p>

<p>He took the whisky bottle to the light, examined the
cork and drove in the corkscrew.</p>

<p>“The soda water—that also might be poisoned,” said
Dr. Oberzohn pleasantly.</p>

<p>At any other time he would not have made that observation.
That he said it at all, betrayed a subtle but
ominous change in their relationships. If Monty noticed
this, he did not say a word, but filled his glass and sat
down on the sofa to drink. And all the time the doctor
was watching him interestedly.</p>

<p>“Yes, Gurther is back. He failed, but you must
excuse failure in a good man. The perfect agent has yet
to be found, and the perfect principal also. The American,
Washington, had left Paris when I last heard of him. He
is to be congratulated. If I myself lived in Paris I should
always be leaving. It is a frivolous city.”</p>

<p>Monty lit a cigar, and decided to arrive at the
object of his visit by stages. For he had come to
perform two important duties. He accounted as a
duty a call upon Joan. No less was it a duty, and
something of a relief also, to make his plan known to
his partner.</p>

<p>“How are the girls?” he asked.</p>

<p>“They are very happy,” said Dr. Oberzohn, who had
not resumed his seat, but stood in an attitude somewhat
reminiscent of Gurther, erect, staring, motionless. “Always
my guests are happy.”</p>

<p>“In that dog-hole?” said the other contemptuously.
“I don’t want Joan to be here.”</p>

<p>The Herr Doktor shrugged.</p>

<p>“Then take her away, my friend,” he said. “Why
should she stay, if you are unhappy because this woman
is not with you? She serves no purpose. Possibly she
is fretting. By all means—I will bring her to you.” He
moved to the door.</p>

<p>“Wait a moment,” said Monty. “I’ll see her later
and take her out perhaps, but I don’t want her to be
away permanently. Somebody ought to stay with that
girl.”</p>

<p>“Why? Am I not here?” asked Oberzohn blandly.</p>

<p>“You’re here, and Gurther’s here.” Monty was looking
out of the window and did not meet the doctor’s
eyes. “Especially Gurther. That’s why I think that
Mirabelle Leicester should have somebody to look after
her. Has it ever struck you that the best way out of
this little trouble is—marriage?”</p>

<p>“I have thought that,” said the doctor. “You also
have thought it? This is wonderful! You are beginning
to think.”</p>

<p>The change of tone was noticeable enough now. Monty
snapped round at the man who had hitherto stood in
apparent awe of him and his judgments.</p>

<p>“You can cut that sarcasm right out, Oberzohn,” he
said, and, without preamble: “I’m going to marry that
girl.”</p>

<p>Oberzohn said nothing to this.</p>

<p>“She’s not engaged; she’s got no love affairs at all.
Joan told me, and Joan is a pretty shrewd girl. I don’t
know how I’m going to fix it, but I guess the best thing
I can do is to pretend that I am a real friend and get her
out of your cellar. She’ll be so grateful that maybe
she will agree to almost anything. Besides, I think I made
an impression the first time I saw her. And I’ve got a
position to offer her, Oberzohn: a house in the best
part of London——”</p>

<p>“My house,” interrupted Oberzohn’s metallic voice.</p>

<p>“Your house? Well, <span class='it'>our</span> house, let us say. We’re
not going to quarrel about terms.”</p>

<p>“I also have a position to offer her, and I do not offer
her any other man’s.”</p>

<p>Oberzohn was looking at him wide-eyed, a comical
figure; his elongated face seemed to stand out in the
gloom like a pantomime mask.</p>

<p>“You?” Monty could hardly believe his ears.</p>

<p>“I, Baron Eruc Oberzohn.”</p>

<p>“A baron, are you?” The room shook with Monty’s
laughter. “Why, you damned old fool, you don’t
imagine she’d marry you, do you?”</p>

<p>Oberzohn nodded.</p>

<p>“She would do anythings what I tell her.” In his
agitation his English was getting a little ragged. “A
girl may not like a mans, but she might hate somethings
worse—you understand? A woman says death is not’ing,
but a woman is afeard of death, isn’t it?”</p>

<p>“You’re crazy,” said Monty scornfully.</p>

<p>“I am crazy, am I? And a damned old fool also—yes?
Yet I shall marry her.”</p>

<p>There was a dead silence, and then Oberzohn continued
the conversation, but on a much calmer note.</p>

<p>“Perhaps I am what you call me, but it is not a thing
worthy for two friends to quarrel. To-morrow you shall
come here, and we will discuss this matter like a business
proposition, hein?”</p>

<p>Monty examined him as though he were a strange
insect that had wandered into his ken.</p>

<p>“You’re not a Swede, you’re German,” he said. “That
baron stuff gave you away.”</p>

<p>“I am from the Baltic, but I have lived many years
in Sweden,” said Oberzohn shortly. “I am not German:
I do not like them.”</p>

<p>More than this he would not say. Possibly he shared
Gurther’s repugnance towards his sometime neighbours.</p>

<p>“We shall not quarrel, anyway,” he continued. “I
am a fool, you are a fool, we are all fools. You wish
to see your woman?”</p>

<p>“I wish to see Joan,” said Monty gruffly. “I don’t
like that ‘your woman’ line of yours.”</p>

<p>“I will go get her. You wait.”</p>

<p>Again the long boots came from under the table, were
dragged on to the doctor’s awkward feet, and Monty
watched him from the window as he crossed to the factory
and disappeared.</p>

<p>He was gone five minutes before he came out
again, alone. Monty frowned. What was the reason for
this?</p>

<p>“My friend,” panted Oberzohn, to whom these exertions
were becoming more and more irksome, “it is not
wise.”</p>

<p>“I want to see her——” began Monty.</p>

<p>“Gently, gently; you shall see her. But on the
canal bank Gurther has also seen a stranger, who has been
walking up and down, pretending to fish. Who can
fish in a canal, I ask you?”</p>

<p>“What is he to do with it?”</p>

<p>“Would it be wise to bring her in daylight, I ask
you again? Do not the men think that your—that this
girl is in Brussels?”</p>

<p>This had not occurred to Monty.</p>

<p>“I have an idea for you. It is a good idea. The
brain of old fool Oberzohn sometimes works remarkably.
This morning a friend sent to me a ticket for a theatre.
Now you shall take her to-night. There is always a little
fog when the sun is setting and you can leave the house
in a car. Presently I will send a man to attract this
watcher’s attention, and then I will bring her to the
house and you can call for her.”</p>

<p>“I will wait for her.” Monty was dogged on this
point.</p>

<p>And wait he did, until an hour later a half-crazy girl
came flying into the room and into his arms.</p>

<p>Dr. Oberzohn witnessed the reunion unmoved.</p>

<p>“That is a pretty scene for me,” he said, “for one to
be so soon married,” and he left them alone.</p>

<p>“Monty, I can’t possibly go back to that beastly place
to-night. She’ll have to stay by herself. And she’s
not a bad kid, Monty, but she doesn’t know she’s worth
a lot of money.”</p>

<p>“Have you been talking to her?” he asked angrily.
“I told you——”</p>

<p>“No, I’ve only just asked her a few questions. You
can’t be in a poky hole like that, thrown together day
and night, without talking, can you? Monty, you’re
absolutely sure nothing can happen to her?”</p>

<p>Monty cleared his throat.</p>

<p>“The worst thing that can happen to her,” he said,
“is to get married.”</p>

<p>She opened her eyes at this.</p>

<p>“Does somebody want to marry her?”</p>

<p>“Oberzohn,” he said.</p>

<p>“That old thing!” she scoffed.</p>

<p>Again he found a difficulty in speaking.</p>

<p>“I have been thinking it over, honey,” he said. “Marriage
doesn’t mean a whole lot to anybody.”</p>

<p>“It’ll mean a lot to me,” she said quietly.</p>

<p>“Suppose I married her?” he blurted.</p>

<p>“You!” She stepped back from him in horror.</p>

<p>“Only just a .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. well, this is the truth, Joan. It
may be the only way to get her money. Now you’re in
on this graft, and you know what you are to me. A
marriage—a formal marriage—for a year or two, and
then a divorce, and we could go away together, man and
wife.”</p>

<p>“Is that what he meant?” She jerked her head to
the door. “About ‘married so soon’?”</p>

<p>“He wants to marry her himself.”</p>

<p>“Let him,” she said viciously. “Do you think I
care about money? Isn’t there any other way of getting
it?”</p>

<p>He was silent. There were too many other ways of
getting it for him to advance a direct negative.</p>

<p>“Oh, Monty, you’re not going to do that?”</p>

<p>“I don’t know what I’m going to do yet,” he said.</p>

<p>“But not that?” she insisted, clinging to him by
his coat.</p>

<p>“We’ll talk about it to-night. The old man’s got us
tickets for the theatre. We’ll have a bit of dinner up
West and go on, and it really doesn’t matter if anybody
sees us, because they know very well you’re not in Brussels.
What is that queer scent you’ve got?”</p>

<p>Joan laughed, forgetting for the moment the serious
problem which faced her.</p>

<p>“Joss-sticks,” she said. “The place got so close and
stuffy, and I found them in the pantry with the provisions.
As a matter of fact, it was a silly thing to do,
because we had the place full of smoke. It’s gone now,
though. Monty, you do these crazy things when you’re
locked up,” she said seriously. “I don’t think I can go
back again.”</p>

<p>“Go back to-morrow,” he almost pleaded. “It’s
only for two or three days, and it means a lot to me.
Especially now that Oberzohn has ideas.”</p>

<p>“You’re not going to think any more about—about
marrying her, are you?”</p>

<p>“We’ll talk of it to-night at dinner. I thought you’d
like the idea of the graft,” he added untruthfully.</p>

<p>Joan had to return to her prison to collect some of
her belongings. She found the girl lying on the bed,
reading, and Mirabelle greeted her with a smile.</p>

<p>“Well, is your term of imprisonment ended?”</p>

<p>Joan hesitated.</p>

<p>“Not exactly. Do you mind if I’m not here to-night?”</p>

<p>Mirabelle shook her head. If the truth be told, she
was glad to be alone. All that day she had been forced
to listen to the plaints and weepings of this transfigured
girl, and she felt that she could not well stand another
twenty-four hours.</p>

<p>“You’re sure you won’t mind being alone?</p>

<p>“No, of course not. I shall miss you,” added Mirabelle,
more in truth than in compliment. “When will
you return?”</p>

<p>The girl made a little grimace.</p>

<p>“To-morrow.”</p>

<p>“You don’t want to come back, naturally? Have
you succeeded in persuading your—your friend to let me
out too?”</p>

<p>Joan shook her head.</p>

<p>“He’ll never do that, my dear, not till .&nbsp;.&nbsp;.” She
looked at the girl. “You’re not engaged, are you?”</p>

<p>“I? No. Is that another story they’ve heard?”
Mirabelle got up from the bed, laughing. “An heiress,
and engaged?”</p>

<p>“No, they don’t say you were engaged.” Joan
hastened to correct the wrong impression. There was
genuine admiration in her voice, when she said: “You’re
wonderful, kid! If I were in your shoes I’d be quaking.
You’re just as cheerful as though you were going to the
funeral of a rich aunt!”</p>

<p>She did not know how near to a breakdown her companion
had been that day, and Mirabelle, who felt stronger
and saner now, had no desire to tell her.</p>

<p>“You’re rather splendid.” Joan nodded. “I wish
I had your pluck.”</p>

<p>And then, impulsively, she came forward and kissed
the girl.</p>

<p>“Don’t feel too sore at me,” she said, and was gone
before Mirabelle could make a reply.</p>

<p>The doctor was waiting for her in the factory.</p>

<p>“The spy has walked up to the canal bridge. We can
go forward,” he said. “Besides,”—he had satisfaction
out of this—“he cannot see over high walls.”</p>

<p>“What is this story about marrying Mirabelle Leicester?”</p>

<p>“So he has told you? Also did he tell you that—that
<span class='it'>he</span> is going to marry her?”</p>

<p>“Yes, and I’ll tell you something, doctor. I’d rather
he married her than you.”</p>

<p>“So!” said the doctor.</p>

<p>“I’d rather anybody else married her, except that
snake of yours.”</p>

<p>Oberzohn looked round sharply. She had used the
word quite innocently, without any thought of its application,
and uttered an “Oh!” of dismay when she realized
her mistake.</p>

<p>“I meant Gurther,” she said.</p>

<p>“Well, I know you meant Gurther, young miss,” he
said stiffly.</p>

<p>To get back to the house they had to make a half-circle
of the factory and pass between the canal wall and
the building itself. The direct route would have taken
them into a deep hollow into which the debris of years
had been thrown, and which now Nature, in her kindness,
had hidden under a green mantle of wild convolvulus.
It was typical of the place that the only beautiful picture
in the grounds was out of sight.</p>

<p>They were just turning the corner of the factory when
the doctor stopped and looked up at the high wall,
which was protected by a <span class='it'>cheval de frise</span> of broken
glass. All except in one spot, about two feet wide,
where not only the glass but the mortar which held it
in place had been chipped off. There were fragments of
the glass, and, on the inside of the wall, marks of some
implement on the hard surface of the mortar.</p>

<p>“So!” said the doctor.</p>

<p>He was examining the scratches on the wall.</p>

<p>“Wait,” he ordered, and hurried back into the factory,
to return, carrying in each hand two large rusty contraptions
which he put on the ground.</p>

<p>One by one he forced open the jagged rusty teeth
until they were wide apart and held by a spring catch.
She had seen things like that in a museum. They were
man-traps—relics of the barbarous days when trespass
was not only a sin but a crime.</p>

<p>He fixed the second of the traps on the path between
the factory and the wall.</p>

<p>“Now we shall see,” he said. “Forward!”</p>

<p>Monty was waiting for her impatiently. The Rolls
had been turned out in her honour, and the sulky-looking
driver was already in his place at the wheel.</p>

<p>“What is the matter with that chauffeur?” she asked,
as they bumped up the lane towards easier going. “He
looks so happy that I shouldn’t be surprised to hear that
his mother was hanged this morning.”</p>

<p>“He’s sore with the old man,” explained Monty.
“Oberzohn has two drivers. They do a little looking
round in the morning. The other fellow was supposed
to come back to take over duty at three o’clock, and he
hasn’t turned up. He was the better driver of the two.”</p>

<p>The chauffeur was apparently seeking every pothole
in the ground, and in the next five minutes she was alternately
clutching the support of the arm-strap and Monty.
They were relieved when at last the car found a metal road
and began its noiseless way towards The Lights. And
then her hand sought his, and for the moment this beautiful
flower which had grown in such foul soil, bloomed
in the radiance of a love common to every woman, high
and low, good and bad.</p>

		</section>
	</body>
</html>
