<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXVIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-28" epub:type="chapter">
			
        <div class='center' style='margin-top:4em;margin-bottom:2em;font-size:1.2em;'>
          <table border="0" cellpadding="4" cellspacing="0" summary="triple" width="100%">
          <tr>
            <td align='left'><a id='ch28'></a><span class='it'>Chapter XXVIII</span></td>
            <td align='center'></td>
            <td align='right'><span class='it'>At Frater’s</span></td>
          </tr>
          </table>
        </div>
      

<p>MANFRED suggested an early dinner at the Lasky,
where the soup was to his fastidious taste. Leon,
who had eaten many crumpets for tea—he had a weakness
for this indigestible article of diet—was prepared to dispense
with the dinner, and Poiccart had views, being a
man of steady habits. They dined at the Lasky, and
Leon ordered a baked onion, and expatiated upon the
two wasted years of Poiccart’s life, employing a wealth
of imagery and a beauty of diction worthy of a better
subject.</p>

<p>Manfred looked at his watch.</p>

<p>“Where are they dining?” he asked.</p>

<p>“I don’t know yet,” said Leon. “Our friend will be
here in a few minutes; when we go out he will tell us.
You don’t want to see her?”</p>

<p>Manfred shook his head.</p>

<p>“No,” he said.</p>

<p>“I’m going to be bored,” complained Poiccart.</p>

<p>“Then you should have let me bring Alma,” said Leon
promptly.</p>

<p>“Exactly.” Raymond nodded his sober head. “I
have the feeling that I am saving a lady from an unutterably
dreary evening.”</p>

<p>There was a man waiting for them when they came
out of the restaurant—a very uninteresting-looking man
who had three sentences to say <span class='it'>sotto voce</span> as they stood
near him, but apparently in ignorance of his presence.</p>

<p>“I did not wish to go to Mero’s,” said Manfred, “but
as we have the time, I think it would be advisable to stroll
in that direction. I am curious to discover whether this
is really Oberzohn’s little treat, or whether the idea
emanated from the unadmirable Mr. Newton.”</p>

<p>“And how will you know, George?” asked Gonsalez.</p>

<p>“By the car. If Oberzohn is master of the ceremonies,
we shall find his machine parked somewhere in the neighbourhood.
If it is Newton’s idea, then Oberzohn’s
limousine, which brought them from South London, will
have returned, and Newton’s car will be in its place.”</p>

<p>Mero’s was one of the most fashionable of dining clubs,
patronized not only by the elite of society, but having on
its books the cream of the theatrical world. It was
situated in one of those quiet, old-world squares which
are to be found in the very heart of London, enjoying,
for some mysterious reason, immunity from the hands
of the speculative property owner. The square retained
the appearance it had in the days of the Georges; and
though some of the fine mansions had been given over
to commerce and the professions, and the lawyer and the
manufacturer’s agent occupied the drawing-rooms and
bedrooms sacred to the bucks and beauties of other days,
quite a large number of the houses remained in private
occupation.</p>

<p>There was nothing in the fascia of Mero’s to advertise
its character. The club premises consisted of three of
these fine old dwellings. The uninitiated might not even
suspect that there was communication between the three
houses, for the old doorways and doorsteps remained
untouched, though only one was used.</p>

<p>They strolled along two sides of the square before,
amidst the phalanx of cars that stood wheel to wheel,
their backs to the railings of the centre gardens, they saw
Oberzohn’s car.</p>

<p>The driver sat with his arms folded on the wheel, in
earnest conversation with a pale-faced man, slightly and
neatly bearded, and dressed in faultless evening dress.
He was evidently a cripple: one shoulder was higher
than the other; and when he moved, he walked painfully
with the aid of a stick.</p>

<p>Manfred saw the driver point up the line of cars, and
the lame gentleman limped in the direction the chauffeur
had indicated and stopped to speak to another man in
livery. As they came abreast of him, they saw that one
of his boots had a thick sole, and the limp was explained.</p>

<p>“The gentleman has lost his car,” said Manfred,
for now he was peering short-sightedly at the number-plates.</p>

<p>The theft of cars was a daily occurrence. Leon had
something to say on the potentialities of that branch
of crime. He owned to an encyclopædic knowledge of
the current fashions in wrongdoing, and in a few brief
sentences indicated the extent of these thefts.</p>

<p>“Fifty a week are shipped to India and the Colonies,
after their numbers are erased and another substituted.
In some cases the ‘knockers off,’ as they call the thieves,
drive them straight away into the packing-cases which
are prepared for every make of car; the ends are nailed
up, and they are waiting shipment at the docks before
the owner is certain of his loss. There are almost as
many stolen cars in India, South Africa and Australia
as there are honest ones!”</p>

<p>They walked slowly past the decorous portals of
Mero’s, and caught a glimpse, through the curtained
windows, of soft table lamps burning, of bare-armed
women and white-shirted men, and heard faintly the
strains of an orchestra playing a Viennese waltz.</p>

<p>“I should like to see our Jane,” said Gonsalez. “She
never came to you, did she?”</p>

<p>“She came, but I didn’t see her,” said Manfred.
“From the moment she leaves the theatre she must not
be left.”</p>

<p>Leon nodded.</p>

<p>“I have already made that arrangement,” he said.
“Digby——”</p>

<p>“Digby takes up his duty at midnight,” said Manfred.
“He has been down to Oberzohn’s place to get the lie
of the land: he thought it advisable that he should
study the topography in daylight, and I agreed. He
might get himself into an awkward tangle if he started
exploring the canal bank in the dark hours. Summer or
winter, there is usually a mist on the water.”</p>

<p>They reached Frater’s theatre so early that the queues
at the pit door were still unadmitted, and Leon suggested
that they make a circuit of this rambling house of entertainment.
It stood in Shaftesbury Avenue and occupied
an island site. On either side two narrow streets flanked
the building, whilst the rear formed the third side of a
small square, one of which was taken up by a County
Council dwelling, mainly occupied by artisans. From
the square a long passage-way led to Cranbourn Street;
whilst, in addition to the alley which opened just at the
back of the theatre, a street ran parallel to Shaftesbury
Avenue from Charing Cross Road to Rupert Street.</p>

<p>The theatre itself was one of the best in London, and
although it had had a succession of failures, its luck had
turned, and the new mystery play was drawing all London.</p>

<p>“That is the stage door,” said Leon—they had reached
the square—“and those are emergency exits”—he
pointed back the way they had come—“which are
utilized at the end of a performance to empty the theatre.”</p>

<p>“Why are you taking such an interest in the theatre
itself?” asked Poiccart.</p>

<p>“Because,” said Gonsalez slowly, “I am in agreement
with George. We should have found Newton’s car
parked in Fitzreeve Gardens—not Oberzohn’s. And the
circumstances are a little suspicious.”</p>

<p>The doors of the pit and gallery were open now;
the queues were moving slowly to the entrances; and
they watched the great building swallow up the devotees
of the drama, before they returned to the front of the
house.</p>

<p>Cars were beginning to arrive, at first at intervals,
but, as the hour of the play’s beginning approached, in
a ceaseless line that made a congestion and rendered the
traffic police articulate and occasionally unkind. It was
short of the half-hour after eight when Manfred saw Oberzohn’s
glistening car in the block, and presently it pulled
up before the entrance of the theatre. First Joan and
then Monty Newton alighted and passed out of view.</p>

<p>Gonsalez thought he had never seen the girl looking
quite as radiantly pretty. She had the colouring and
the shape of youth, and though the more fastidious
might object to her daring toilette, the most cantankerous
could not cavil at the pleasing effect.</p>

<p>“It is a great pity,”—Leon spoke in Spanish—“a
thousand pities! I have the same feeling when I see a
perfect block of marble placed in the hands of a tombstone-maker
to be mangled into ugliness!”</p>

<p>Manfred put out his hand and drew him back into
the shadow. A cab was dropping the lame man. He
got out with the aid of a linkman, paid the driver, and
limped into the vestibule. It was not a remarkable
coincidence: the gentleman had evidently come from
Mero’s, and as all London was flocking to the drama,
there was little that was odd in finding him here. They
saw that he went up into the dress-circle, and later, when
they took their places in the stalls, Leon, glancing up,
saw the pale, bearded face and noted that he occupied
the end seat of the front row.</p>

<p>“I’ve met that man somewhere,” he said, irritated.
“Nothing annoys me worse than to forget, not a face, but
where I have seen it!”</p>

<p>Did Gurther but know, he had achieved the height of
his ambition: he had twice passed under the keen
scrutiny of the cleverest detectives in the world, and had
remained unrecognized.</p>

		</section>
	</body>
</html>
