<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXIII: The Courier</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-23" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">The Courier</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Elijah Washington came up to London for a consultation. With the exception of a blue contusion beneath his right eye, he was none the worse for his alarming experience.</p>
			<p>Leon Gonsalez had driven him to town, and on the way up the big man had expressed views about snakebite which were immensely interesting to the man at the wheel. “I’ve figured it out this way: there is no snake at all. What happens is that these guys have extracted snake venom⁠—and that’s easy, by making a poison-snake bite on something soft⁠—and have poisoned a dart or a burr with the venom. I’ve seen that done in Africa, particularly up in the Ituri country, and it’s pretty common in South America. The fellow just throws or shoots it, and just where the dart hits, he gets snake-poisoning right away.”</p>
			<p>“That is an excellent theory,” said Leon, “only⁠—no dart or burr has ever been found. It is the first thing the police looked for in the case of the stockbroker. They had the ground searched for days. And it was just the same in the case of the tramp and the bank clerk, just the same in the case of Barberton. A dart would stick some time and would be found in the man’s clothing or near the spot where he was struck down. How do you account for that?”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Washington very frankly admitted that he couldn’t account for it at all, and Leon chuckled.</p>
			<p>“I can,” he said. “In fact, I know just how it’s done.”</p>
			<p>“Great snakes!” gasped Washington in amazement. “Then why don’t you tell the police?”</p>
			<p>“The police know⁠—now,” said Leon. “It isn’t snakebite⁠—it is nicotine poisoning.”</p>
			<p>“How’s that?” asked the startled man, but Leon had his joke to himself.</p>
			<p>After a consultation which had lasted most of the night they had brought Washington from Rath Hall, and on the way Leon hinted gently that the Three had a mission for him and hoped he would accept.</p>
			<p>“You’re much too good a fellow to be put into an unnecessarily dangerous position,” he said; “and even if you weren’t, we wouldn’t lightly risk your blessed life; but the job we should ask you to do isn’t exactly a picnic.”</p>
			<p>“Listen!” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Washington with sudden energy. “I don’t want any more snakes⁠—not that kind of snake! I’ve felt pain in my time, but nothing like this! I know it must have been snake venom, but I’d like to meet the little wriggler who brews the brand that was handed to me, and maybe I’d change my mind about collecting him⁠—alive!”</p>
			<p>Leon agreed silently, and for the next few moments was avoiding a street car on one side, a baker’s cart on another, and a <em>blah</em> woman who was walking aimlessly in the road, apparently with no other intention than of courting an early death, this being the way of <em>blah</em> women.</p>
			<p>“Phew!” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Washington, as the car skidded on the greasy road. “I don’t know whether you’re a good driver or just naturally under the protection of Providence.”</p>
			<p>“Both,” said Leon, when he had straightened the machine. “All good drivers are that.”</p>
			<p>Presently he continued:</p>
			<p>“It is snake venom all right, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Washington; only snake venom that has been most carefully treated by a man who knows the art of concentration of its bad and the extraction of its harmless constituents. My theory is that certain alkaloids are added, and it is possible that there has been a blending of two different kinds of poison. But you’re right when you say that no one animal carries in his poison sac that particular variety of death-juice. If it is any value to you, we are prepared to give you a snake-proof certificate!”</p>
			<p>“I don’t want another experience of that kind,” Elijah Washington warned him; but Leon turned the conversation to the state of the road and the problems of traffic control.</p>
			<p>There had been nothing seen or heard of Mirabelle, and Meadows’ activities had for the moment been directed to the forthcoming inquest on Barberton. Nowadays, whenever he reached Scotland Yard, he moved in a crowd of reporters, all anxious for news of further developments. The Barberton death was still the livliest topic in the newspapers: the old scare of the snake had been revived and in some degree intensified. There was not a journal which did not carry columns of letters to the editor denouncing the inactivity of the police. Were they, asked one sarcastic correspondent, under the hypnotic influence of the snake’s eyes? Could they not, demanded another, give up trapping speeders on the Lingfield road and bring their mighty brains to the elucidation of a mystery that was to cause every household in London the gravest concern? The Barberton murder was the peg on which every letter-writing faddist had a novel view to hang, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Meadows was not at that time the happiest officer in the force.</p>
			<p>“Where is Lee?” asked Washington as they came into Curzon Street.</p>
			<p>“He’s in town for the moment, but we are moving him to the North of England, though I don’t think there is any danger to him, now that Barberton’s letters are in our possession. They would have killed him yesterday to prevent our handling the correspondence. Today I should imagine he has no special importance in the eyes of Oberzohn and Company. And here we are!”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Washington got out stiffly and was immediately admitted by the butler. The three men went upstairs to where George Manfred was wrestling with a phase of the problem. He was not alone; Digby, his head swathed in bandages, sat, an unhappy man, on the edge of a chair and answered Leon’s cheery greeting with a mournful smile.</p>
			<p>“I’m sending Digby to keep observation on Oberzohn’s house; and especially do I wish him to search that old boat of his.”</p>
			<p>He was referring to an ancient barge which lay on the mud at the bottom of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Oberzohn’s private dock. From the canal there was a narrow waterway into the little factory grounds. It was so long since the small cantilever bridge which covered the entrance had been raised, that locals regarded the bridge floor as part of the normal bank of the canal. But behind the green water-gates was a concrete dock large enough to hold one barge, and here for years a decrepit vessel had wallowed, the hunting-ground of rats and the sleeping-place of the desperately homeless.</p>
			<p>“The barge is practically immovable: I’ve already reported on that,” said Leon.</p>
			<p>“It certainly has that appearance, and yet I would like a search,” replied Manfred. “You understand that this is night duty, and I have asked Meadows to notify the local inspector that you will be on duty⁠—I don’t want to be pulled out of my bed to identify you at the Peckham police station. It isn’t a cheerful job, but you might be able to make it interesting by finding your way into his grounds. I don’t think the factory will yield much, but the house will certainly be a profitable study to an observer of human nature.”</p>
			<p>“I hope I do better this time, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Manfred,” said Digby, turning to go. “And, if you don’t mind, I’ll go by day and take a look at the place. I don’t want to fall down this time!”</p>
			<p>George smiled as he rose and shook the man’s hand at parting. “Even <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gonsalez makes mistakes,” he said maliciously, and Leon looked hurt.</p>
			<p>Manfred tidied some papers on his desk and put them into a drawer, waiting for Poiccart’s return. When he had come: “Now, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Washington, we will tell you what we wish you to do. We wish you to take a letter to Lisbon. Leon has probably hinted something to that effect, and it is now my duty to tell you that the errand is pretty certain to be an exceedingly dangerous one, but you are the only man I know to whom I could entrust this important document. I feel I cannot allow you to undertake this mission without telling you that the chances are heavily against your reaching Portugal.”</p>
			<p>“Bless you for those cheerful words,” said Washington blankly. “The only thing I want to be certain about is, am I likely to meet <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Snake?”</p>
			<p>Manfred nodded, and the American’s face lengthened.</p>
			<p>“I don’t know that even that scares me,” he said at last, “especially now that I know that the dope they use isn’t honest snake-spit at all but a synthesized poison. It was having my confidence shaken in snakes that rattled me. When do you want me to go?”</p>
			<p>“Tonight.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Washington for the moment was perplexed, and Manfred continued: “Not by the Dover-Calais route. We would prefer that you travelled by Newhaven-Dieppe. Our friends are less liable to be on the alert, though I can’t even guarantee that. Oberzohn spends a lot of money in espionage. This house has been under observation for days. I will show you.”</p>
			<p>He walked to the window and drew aside the curtain.</p>
			<p>“Do you see a spy?” he asked, with a twinkle in his eye.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Washington looked up and down the street.</p>
			<p>“Sure!” he said. “That man at the corner smoking a cigar⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Is a detective officer from Scotland Yard,” said Manfred. “Do you see anybody else?”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said Washington after a while, “there’s a man cleaning windows on the opposite side of the road: he keeps looking across here.”</p>
			<p>“A perfectly innocent citizen,” said Manfred.</p>
			<p>“Well, he can’t be in any of those taxis, because they’re empty.” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Washington nodded to a line of taxis drawn up on the rank in the centre of the road.</p>
			<p>“On the contrary, he is in the first taxi on the rank⁠—he is the driver! If you went out and called a cab, he would come to you. If anybody else called him, he would be engaged. His name is Clarke, he lives at 43, Portlington Mews; he is an ex-convict living apart from his wife, and he receives seven pounds a week for his services, ten pounds every time he drives Oberzohn’s car, and all the money he makes out of his cab.”</p>
			<p>He smiled at the other’s astonishment.</p>
			<p>“So the chances are that your movements will be known; even though you do not call the cab, he will follow you. You must be prepared for that. I’m putting all my cards on the table, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Washington, and asking you to do something which, if you cannot bring yourself to agree, must be done by either myself, Poiccart or Gonsalez. Frankly, none of us can be spared.”</p>
			<p>“I’ll go,” said the American. “Snake or no snake, I’m for Lisbon. What is my route?”</p>
			<p>Poiccart took a folded paper from his pocket.</p>
			<p>“Newhaven, Dieppe, Paris. You have a reserved compartment on the <i epub:type="se:name.vehicle.train" xml:lang="fr">Sud Express</i>; you reach Valladolid late tomorrow night, and change to the Portuguese mail. Unless I can fix an aeroplane to meet you at Irun. We are trying now. Otherwise, you should be in Lisbon at two o’clock on the following afternoon. He had better take the letter now, George.”</p>
			<p>Manfred unlocked the wall safe and took out a long envelope. It was addressed to “<b epub:type="z3998:recipient">Senhor Alvaz Manuel y Cintra, Minister of Colonies</b>,” and was heavily sealed.</p>
			<p>“I want you to place this in Senhor Cintra’s hands. You’ll have no difficulty there because you will be expected,” he said. “Will you travel in that suit?”</p>
			<p>The American thought.</p>
			<p>“Yes, that’s as good as any,” he said.</p>
			<p>“Will you take off your jacket?”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Washington obeyed, and with a small pair of scissors Manfred cut a slit in the lining and slipped the letter in. Then, to the American’s astonishment, Leon produced a rolled housewife, threaded a needle with extraordinary dexterity, and for the next five minutes the snake-hunter watched the deft fingers stitching through paper and lining. So skilfully was the slit sewed that Elijah Washington had to look twice to make sure where the lining had been cut.</p>
			<p>“Well, that beats the band!” he said. “<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gonsalez, I’ll send you my shirts for repair!”</p>
			<p>“And here is something for you to carry.” It was a black leather portfolio, well worn. To one end was attached a steel chain terminating in a leather belt. “I want you to put this round your waist, and from now on to carry this wallet. It contains nothing more important than a few envelopes imposingly sealed, and if you lose it no great harm will come.”</p>
			<p>“You think they’ll go for the wallet?”</p>
			<p>Manfred nodded.</p>
			<p>“One cannot tell, of course, what Oberzohn will do, and he’s as wily as one of his snakes. But my experience has been,” he said, “that the cleverer the criminal, the bigger the fool and the more outrageous his mistakes. You will want money.”</p>
			<p>“Well, I’m not short of that,” said the other with a smile. “Snakes are a mighty profitable proposition. Still, I’m a business man⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>For the next five minutes they discussed financial details, and he was more than surprised to discover the recklessness with which money was disbursed.</p>
			<p>He went out, with a glance from the corner of his eye at the taximan, whose hand was raised inquiringly, but, ignoring the driver, he turned and walked towards Regent Street, and presently found a wandering taxi of an innocuous character, and ordered the man to drive to the Ritz-Carlton, where rooms had been taken for him.</p>
			<p>He was in Regent Street before he looked round through the peephole, and, as Manfred had promised him, the taxi was following, its flag down to prevent chance hiring. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Washington went up to his room, opened the window and looked out: the taxi had joined a nearby rank. The driver had left his box.</p>
			<p>“He’s on the phone,” muttered <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Washington, and would have given a lot of money to have known the nature of the message.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
